---
layout: post
title: "Earth Day Trail Blazers: Volunteers Pave the Way to a Greener Future!"
date: 2023-04-29 13:22:19 -1000
image: /assets/img/2023-04-29-earth-day.jpg
categories: jekyll update
---

Clem Lam organized the project, and Jon Paul Mangarin from Rainy Day Landscaping volunteered his chipper. A group of community volunteers from Waimea Trails and Greenways worked together to enhance Ke Ala Kahawai O Waimea, a trail along Waimea stream. The 84th Engineering Battalion had previously removed fallen trees from the stream bed, ensuring better flow and preventing debris buildup.

On Earth Day, the dedicated volunteers gathered to continue the trail's enhancement efforts. Jon Paul Mangarin operated his chipper, efficiently converting brush into wood chips, while others cleared the trail's sides. The collaborative effort, under Clem Lam's leadership, showcased the power of community engagement and environmental stewardship.

Besides enhancing aesthetics, the removal of fallen trees and debris improved safety and accessibility. Maintaining a clear path allows hikers to enjoy the trail without unnecessary obstacles and benefits the ecosystem by facilitating unobstructed stream flow.

Earth Day served as a reminder of environmental conservation's significance. The involvement of volunteers, led by Clem Lam, and Jon Paul Mangarin's contribution with the chipper exemplified collective responsibility towards the environment.

The transformed debris into wood chips will contribute to a more sustainable trail surface, promoting longevity and minimizing environmental impact. In conclusion, Clem Lam's organization and the united efforts of community volunteers, including Jon Paul Mangarin's chipper contribution, helped enhance Ke Ala Kahawai O Waimea trail, showcasing the positive outcomes of collective environmental action and community engagement.
